The "urban heat island effect"
affects a lot of cities like New York,
because a tremendous amount of buildings,
a lot of concrete,
and little vegetation
increases the overall temperature of the city.
And when the city is really, really, really hot,
it affects the health of our citizens:
individuals who may suffer from asthma
or may be susceptible to heat waves,
our elderly population.
So heat actually affects life and safety.
One of the strategies that we have to
combat the urban heat island effect
is the NYC CoolRoofs initiative,
which works simply by painting the roofs white.
"See how the coating is going inside the seams?
"Yeah."
Put it on as heavy as you can get it."
Many buildings, because of
the black roof, absorb heat.
And painting them white reduces the
internal temperature of a building
by 10 to 30 percent.
"Remember guys, don't stretch the coating,
don't stretch the coating.
Where's your bucket?"
That reflective coating's going to keep the building cooler,
conserve energy for the people who live in the building.
Less air conditioning and less fans being run.
People can save some money.
Very energy efficient.
"You can't get that…"
This CoolRoofs program is really
a part of the Mayor's strategy to lower
New York City's emissions by 80 percent by 2050,
and to really help New York City become
a great partner in fighting climate change.